[Music]
okay welcome back to air job boss I am
the air job boss and this is a
continuation of our interview
preparation question and answer Series
today we're going to talk about a very
common question that question is
normally at the beginning of your
interview process and it is tell us
about yourself or tell us how you got
started in aviation tell us about your
journey through Aviation or tell us
about your past experience as a pilot
now there's two ways basically to answer
this
one is a chronological
uh reading of your
experience this is actually written down
on your resume and it's written in your
application under job history and you
would go through well I grew up in
Southern California I always wanted to
be a pilot I graduated high school and I
went to college in Kent State where I
got an aeronautical science degree in
all my flight ratings including a double
I and I spent four years flight
instructing until I had 1500 hours and I
went to Piedmont Airlines where I did
two years as an fo three years as a
captain and I got hired by Atlas Air
Cargo and I've been working there for
two years as a first officer on their
747 flying all around the world and now
here I am at the interview with you okay
they really already know that
now some Airlines will use this question
just as a way of for you to get
comfortable talking and for them to
break the ice and for them to generally
get to know you and they're really not
totally listening to you but there are
some Airlines and your interview will be
kind of
uh predicated on the way you answer this
and a lot of airlines are looking for
what they call Core competencies yeah or
characteristics in you or all
individuals that make good employees and
good Airline captains good airline
pilots some of those core competencies
are like problem solving a good
foundation of knowledge conflict
resolution
customer service crew Resource
Management threaten Air Management you
know all those things that you know and
maybe actually written down in their job
description of a first officer a captain
at this airline that you should know or
you should have some some of this in you
right some of these skills in you these
are the talent skills and experience
that they're looking for so you want to
tell them exactly that you have these
skills and how you got them so
all you need to do is go through a
chronological telling of your of your
aviation history but tell them tell them
what you've learned and what skill you
have achieved at that time for example
I grew up in Southern California always
going to the airport with my father
watching Jets take off and land and it
was at that point at a very young age I
had a real deep desire and heavy passion
for Aviation
after I graduated high school I decided
I was going to become a professional
pilot and I applied to Kent State
University and I achieved a Bachelor's
of Science in aeronautical science and
this gave me a
uh deep understanding of the
fundamentals of Aviation and that's why
I went to Aviation specialized College
because I wanted to be the best pilot I
could be and I knew I had to have the
best foundational knowledge education
that I could achieve and I I achieved
that at Kent State while I was there I
also achieved all my flight ratings
where I really learned how to work hard
and have a lot of tenacity and
persistence because sometimes it was
difficult and sometimes I thought I
wasn't going to pass my check rides
nevertheless I got together with a lot
of friends and we all worked together as
a team to study hard and to discuss
problems and to discuss Solutions and
kind of really learn that group dynamic
and how to accomplish our goals as
individuals but working together as a
team
after I graduated I began working as a
flight instructor and it was at this
time I really learned to put myself in
other people's shoes and make their
priorities my prior my priorities rather
than my priorities their priorities I
had to actually understand get to know
them build a lot of rapport with them so
that I could teach them in the most
efficient way so what I was saying was
drawing from their reference and it made
it easier for their them to understand
exactly what I was asking them to do in
order for them to be successful as a
pilot themselves
after I flight instructed I was actually
hired by Piedmont Airlines and this was
my first
um opportunity to work for a real
Airline a passenger service Airline and
the biggest thing I really learned there
was one
determination and working hard through
the initial training because the initial
training after the initial training
you're set out on the line and you may
not see training again for six nine or
even 12 months so I studied very hard
initially to understand the aircraft
systems the aircraft operation and the
company's operating manual particularly
they're safety oriented policies as well
as the company's mission
because I figured that I was hired to
use my skills talent and experience to
promote the company's Mission and to
achieve the company's goals and that's
the biggest takeaway I had from at a
regional Airline now I was both a fo and
a captain so I understood now both sides
of the seats one being a good follower
and the other being a good leader and
building a rapport when you're trying to
ask people to work on your behalf and
help you operate in a safe and efficient
manner after that I wanted to I wanted
to broaden my experience so I took a job
with uh Atlas Air Cargo and although
um it wasn't my ultimate destination I
knew that it would it would polish my
understanding of Aviation large Jets
International operation crossing the
Pacific Crossing the Atlantic operating
in foreign countries with foreign
regulations which of course required a
lot of study and a lot of diligence and
a lot of care prior to endeavoring to
these these different uh environments
regulatory environments and such and it
just it just operating those
environments brought a deep complexity
and it allowed me uh uh to broaden my
problem solving and my preparation
skills so I had built a process of a lot
better preparation prior to each flight
now that's just a part of me no matter
what flight I do and now it's brought me
here in front of you at this Airline and
I hope that I can continue what I've
been doing applying my talents and my
skills and experience in in achieving
the goals of our your company and which
soon will be my company
okay as cheesy as that is and as long as
that is that's really what you need to
do you need to talk for about five to
seven minutes
you need to go along your history and
tell them the competencies and the
things you've learned
a lot of people don't take this approach
and a lot of people get a c on this
answer the answer I just gave may be a B
plus maybe an a who knows that's why
it's important of course that you
probably get a professional preparation
or study well the priorities of the
airline you're interviewing at their
mission statement their safety
operational safety policy and their
company culture so that as you're
describing yourself and your learning
process you are saying the things that
are valuable to them and also dispelling
some of the questions that they might
have about all applicants one are they
dedicated to their field do they have
passion and desire that will last them
through difficult times number two can
we train this person do they have a
process and a track record of being able
to be self-motivated motivated in
training number three do they believe in
what we're doing here and are they going
to work hard toward companies goals are
they just here to receive a paycheck and
you can see that I kind of touched upon
those but it's important that you
understand exactly what the target
company is wanting yeah anyway I'm the
air job boss if you want one-on-one
preparation click the link below to
airjobboss.com I also have a handbook to
direct you but also subscribe like and
share this video it helps a lot with
spreading this Channel and making this
channel more successful until next time
thank you so much and we're gonna see on
the next video